 Hi hello. Hey how's it going? Yeah pretty good. Okay so welcome to the company it's your first day I will help you on board so the first thing you want to do is download the code base so go ahead and clone the git repository can you see my screen? Yeah now I see it. Easy I know how to do this. Alright so now you want to go ahead and install npm node git VS code or you can use any IDE you want then you want to use your email to sign into confluence for documentation Azure DevOps, Jura and GitHub you got that? Yes it's just download it. Yeah perfect so we're a pretty diverse company we use multiple technologies here so you want to go ahead and also install python java c hashtag c++ and once you get that code base setup you want to go ahead and use the command line to directly install linux TypeScript JavaScript and setup the confluence. I won't show you that because you know it's just you know it's pretty simple. So yeah do you have any questions? Yeah I think your screen is lag. Alright so no questions perfect you seem to be pretty bright I'll give you your first task right away. It's pretty basic you know just to get your feet wet so basically you're gonna fix this button. Okay that's not too bad. And then you want to make this button interact from front to back end it should make exactly 7.5 api calls and return the data to the AWS cloud WordPress which is our middle end. But you want to make sure it doesn't bottleneck so add some multi threading in the java script. And are you familiar with machine learning? No. Yeah you probably are right. You and your kids are really good with that stuff nowadays. So maybe just add a little bit of unsupervised classification and we can you know cluster the HTML attributes and if you really want to go above and beyond. You can also use bootstrap to strap everything together at the end. You know just pretty simple. I have to jump on another call so don't hesitate to ask me if you have any questions and you'll be done with this in like one hour right so I'll see you then good luck.