 Having compassion towards yourself whenever you're learning something is a skill. Yes, you may be not where you want to be. That's okay. The best-selling author and host. The number one health and wellness podcast. I'm on purpose with Jay Shetty. Hey everyone, welcome back to On Purpose, the number one health podcast in the world. Thanks to each and every one of you that come back every week to become happier, healthier and more healed. And that's my goal here. My goal is to introduce you to people who can help us become happier, help us become healthier, and help us become more healed in our lives. That's what I'm committed to and I'm grateful that you're here listening and committed to that same mission. Today's guest is going to help us do just that. I'm talking about a dear friend of mine who I've been getting to know over the last few years. We've known each other in different incarnations which I'll explain as the podcast goes through. But for those of you who don't know him, Nimae Dalgada was raised as a vegetarian by virtue of his spiritual beliefs and has actually never eaten me in his life. Nimae became the world's first vegan IFBB professional bodybuilder, proving that you don't need animal products to be an elite athlete. Nimae is a motivational speaker and shares his story all over the world to bring awareness to the many benefits of a plant-based lifestyle and the importance of exercising our bodies and our compassion. Nimae has also founded veg nutrition and all natural supplement company and vegan fitness.com where he has coached thousands of clients along with a handful of phenomenal celebrities and athletes doing their best while being plant-based. Please welcome to the show Nimae Dalgada. Nimae, it's great to have you here, man. Okay, I am so excited to be here. Thank you so much for having me, bro. No, it's great to finally have you here. We've talked about this for a while. Yeah, it's been a long time coming. It's been a long time coming and I'm glad you're coming on now and I love how we talk about people exercising their bodies and exercising their compassion. I think that idea is really beautiful and I can honestly say that you're one of the toughest, strongest guys I know. But at the same time, you're also one of the sweetest, kindest guys I know. And I think that combination is really powerful. But I want to talk about your journey today. I want to talk about some of your insights today. We have a big community here who wants to be healthier, who wants to be happier. Let's start with right now. What makes you feel happy and healthy right now today? That's such a good question. Yeah, I think first of all, it just begins with waking up feeling like I have purpose definitely waking up. Tending to myself first and foremost, my morning routine, my water, my meditation practices, all of these things that have... I've slowly built the practice of over the course of 10, 15 years that have now been so ingrained into the fabric of who I am. And that is what really keeps me feeling good and showing up for whatever the day has to throw at me. So, I mean, once you find that, then it really does allow you to live in that healthy space to where you can show up and handle anything, really. Yeah, and I've seen you share some of those on Instagram and on social media. Could you walk us through what have become those key principles of your morning routine or evening routine that you turn to and which are the ones that you've developed? Yeah, so first of all, what time I wake up? I'm sure you've had plenty of guests on the show that talk about the benefits of waking up early. I try to wake up at the same time every morning, so for me, that's anywhere around 6 o'clock. So yeah, I don't have a alarm clock. I just naturally wake up at that time. My body's just like, all right, ready to go. And then I just drink my cup of water and I will find a quiet space. I have a little meditation station in my house with my red light. And I'll just sit and just breathe. And it's not perfect every morning. This is what I don't want to preach or come on here and talk about is perfection. I really am not a perfect person. And I want to really first and foremost make that clear because it's not perfect. But the days that I do show up, I show up to the degree that I can. So sometimes that's 20 minutes, sometimes that's longer, sometimes it's even five. And for me, that tone of really setting the tone for the rest of my day with intention with that piece of just tapping into whatever my body needs that morning. And then letting that dictate how I operate for the rest of the day. That's beautiful. And what are the benefits of red light for those who don't know because you said you meditate there with the red light? What's that for? Yeah, so there's plenty of benefits behind red light. I'm not an expert in it. But I believe it was developed by now. So they have like over 500 different scientific studies that show some of the benefits. I believe it's the main benefit is with ATP production. So it's the energy produced by yourself. So it helps you rejuvenate cells and get rid of old damaged cells and replace them with new cells. So for somebody who wants to recover from athletic training, it's a great way to start your day. It also helps with skin. If somebody has some skin issues there too. And it's also just nice to it provides a little bit of heat too. So it can just like provide that nice ambient lighting in the morning when it's still dark outside to just start your day with a little bit less of this like bright white light. Yeah, wow. Yeah, that's cool. Yeah, I've used it for I used it recently after I had surgery and so. Oh, nice. Yeah, that's I was recommended to use it. I was intrigued why someone would use it when they're not had surgery, but that's that's good to know. I love that and I love what you're saying about not being perfect, right? I think people often think that when someone comes on a podcast or they talk about something that they've nailed it and their life works like clockwork and they work of at the same time every day and they meditate for the same amount of time and. And that's amazing if it if that's true for you and it happens, but but it rarely does. I wanted to go backwards into your life today. Obviously you've, you know, famously known for being in the documentary game changes and that was exact produced by James Cameron. On a Schwarzenegger Jackie Chan Lewis Hamilton and you know people that you know well as well. And that's incredible to see how far plant based lifestyle vegan lifestyle athletic ability is calm. I guess my question is do you feel that you at this stage before we go back kind of what do you feel you prove to yourself like when I when I read things like you've never read to me. And that you know you don't need animal products to be an elite athlete is that something you set out to do is that something that was important to you or is that something that kind of has just happened in society is something that interest people. So for me personally it was never something that I had set out to do I had honestly had been ashamed of being plant based I was like you mentioned earlier in the podcast. I was raised vegetarian by virtue of my parents spiritual beliefs in which I was raised with as well and one of those beliefs is a hymns which I'm sure you're very familiar with which is just trying to live a life and not contribute to any unnecessary harm or suffering and try to lead with compassion. So my virtue of trying to follow that it leads me to make the choice to not consume animal products and when I was raised vegetarian I grew up in Mississippi and there weren't too many vegetarians in Mississippi and I would constantly get questioned and asked about my spiritual beliefs whenever I was younger and I didn't have the vernacular or the language to really explain myself. So I tended to become more withdrawn or just a little bit more avoidant whenever people would ask me that question and it really wasn't until my later years when I was mid 20s when I leaned into that part of myself and started to really embrace and own my belief and being proud of that belief and that's what ultimately led me to finding my purpose because people started to ask me once I started winning bodybuilding competitions they started to ask me how do I know how I was going to do that. I started to ask me how are you doing this and the question that I once avoided so much about why I was vegetarian now became this really interesting topic for people that wanted to learn more from it. So I started sharing more online and then just naturally fell into this place where I was teaching people which was really exciting for me. Yeah, I think so many of us as kids have beliefs or values that we follow because of our parents and then we feel embarrassed about them when we're questioned because they're not our beliefs and values at the time. Like you said, we don't know how to explain why we do this or why we don't do this often on those occasions sometimes as we grow older we leave those values. We go the other way. I know so many people that grew up with certain values especially when they're spiritual based that kids end up going the other way where they're like well I don't want anything to do with that because it doesn't even make any sense because their parents never explain to them why you do that or it's important so they don't know why. What do you think stopped you from like going the other way and just like being like well no one in Mississippi gets it so why am I bothering to do this. As a child it's really easy to understand the concept of not wanting to harm an animal. This is why you know most people will take their children to petting zoos and not slaughterhouses because kids naturally have an affinity to animals and want to learn from them and care for them or be around them and I think that just really stuck with me because I grew up on a cow farm and I had such close proximity to animals and I had such a deep connection with them and I think fundamentally I understood that in order for me to end up on my plate. An animal would have to suffer or be killed and I just didn't want to contribute with that. I just never felt aligned in my body and I was doing just fine without it so I continuously heard people tell me that if you know I need me to be big and strong I need me to grow up for protein for all the other nutrients and here I was you know fairly athletic even as a kid just living this experience and I just knew in my heart that I didn't need it so I just continue to go by feeling and I'm going to be able to do that. I'm going to be able to do that feeling and really just stop caring what other people told me I needed and just like really started tuning into what I felt like was right for me. I feel like there's a lot of people who want to be plant based on vegan but then they go back to eating meat because they're told they're lacking something or they need something and often people feel it themselves like they feel better when they're eating meat in terms of their body even if they don't agree with it morally I've met a lot of people like that. And I guess my point is and that's what I'm hearing from you is everyone so unique and so different what nutrients did you have to be more proactive to find as someone who's vegan and be more thoughtful about let's start there first. Yeah so I mean the first topic that most people tend to bring up is protein. Protein is an important nutrient that has many purposes in the body including recovery including many just for overall health and vitality you need protein. I'm not denying that but I think that there's a lack of education when it comes to the amount of protein that plants provide so I growing up never really concerned myself with an amount of protein I just ate what my parents would provide me with and that was like lentils you know pastas things that naturally contain protein but it doesn't have animal protein so that is the biggest kind of conversation that I normally have on a daily basis is where do you get your protein. And I think it's important to realize for people understanding how much protein you actually need and everybody's different like you said I'm not here to tell anybody how to live their life that's not my intention whatsoever I'm here to just talk about my experience and and have the conversation with people who are genuinely interested in learning about this lifestyle and possibly feeling even more vitality which is what I experience whenever I went fully plant based so protein and I'm not sure if I can do that. Protein the other big one is B12 so B12 is a micronutrient that you know we don't naturally get in our diet based off the sterile nature of the way that we grow our crops we used to get it from soil and streams of water so now most B12 is supplemented and even given to animals so people that consume animal products are getting supplemented B12 that are fed to the animals so you're getting getting it second hand so it's not just a vegan issue at this point. And it's a general population issue that people believe up to 40% of the population has sub optimal levels of B12 so supplementing with that is a wise choice just to kind of ensure that and then the other ones iron I mean that's another big one for anybody that has potentially anemia or anything like that but there are plenty of vegetables that provide more than enough iron it's just about really understanding how to eat and consume a diverse amount of vegetables in your diet that is a good example. And then you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you and being more aware of things like B12 and omega 3s and these kind of things that and I and and so many other things I still would have made the decision to become plant plant base I feel far more energetic today I feel far more Immute my immunity is far stronger today like I feel much better being plant based without a doubt I just wish I made my journey towards it a lot easier and so I'm very mindful now where it was like I went from the literally being vegetarian to plant base like literally overnight yeah sort of yeah exactly and I think there were a few things that I could have avoided if if I didn't do that so but with your journey so you grew up in Mississippi in the spiritual home your your already vegetarian and and I guess what when you brought up in a spiritual environment and I don't meet many people I don't think we've interviewed many people who grew up directly in a spiritual environment A what does that mean and B like how did that affect your values and goals and ambitions in life like how did that yeah so I definitely gave me perspective because the environment that I grew up and it was a it was a faith based community and the difference was that the the spiritual belief was very different than the surrounding spiritual beliefs because we were a higher Christian or community which division of Hinduism so my parents actually converted from Catholicism to Hinduism in Argentina and they are deeply spiritual people they decided that they wanted to develop devote them their lives to their spiritual practice so they renounced all their possessions and they decided to go live in the temple I mean you have had a you know that experience and they had my brother they had my sister and they bounced around South America and then eventually was told about an opportunity to come live in a spiritual community in South Mississippi and so they immigrated to the United States with basically $200 in their pockets and two and a half kids pregnant with me and that's where I was born and raised and it was really quite unique because it was a community like I remember calling all of the mothers in the community mother because we would go to the temple we would go around the farm we had cows we had our own garden everybody had a role in the community and it was really beautiful now that I now that I look back at it before after when I was younger and I started to integrate into the more traditional southern culture because I went to public school that brought about a lot of challenges for me because it was like I was living in this bubble and then venturing out into the other world was that for high school it was from all the way from kindergarten to to high school so you were saying going from home to then going to yes, you got in high school to a public public school but you was yeah yeah yeah so that brought about its own challenges because like I said I was just very different from my peers and it made me appreciate other people and their differences because I would get questions so much about my spiritual beliefs my practices my family my home life and also hear much of the judgments that came along with being so different and you know I I appear the way I do so I don't look like like a like a Hindu person you know like most people associate Hinduism with being from India and much of the culture that I grew up when in that community were Indian so I kind of felt like an outcast within the community and then felt like an outcast outside of that community as well so it was very difficult for me to find my own identity so I got very good at observing other people and and really just having compassion for different forms of life without judging because I knew what it was like to be judged growing up yeah well yeah and that's that's hard right like when you grow up without feeling like homes not home and then away from home doesn't feel like home and but it sounds like you were able to process it in a healthy way right like the ability to learn not to judge the ability to be okay with people having differences the ability to understand that everyone was unique and everyone was you know on their own path or whatever it may be like that sounds like a really healthy mindset the second part of my question was like how did that impact your ambitions and goals and what you wanted to do or be because you're getting exposed to these two very different worlds like you have the public school academic world and then you have this private life of spirituality like how did that impact what you wanted to do with your life yeah yeah so we so we moved out of that community when I was about nine years old and you know we were immigrants my parents didn't speak any English whenever they arrived to the United States so they had to find their way in this world and pay for their kids and we were very spiritually rich but materialistically very poor so money was always a topic of conversation and always a source of anxiety for for my family so for me that really gave birth to the to the desire to be financially stable so I was always good at math I was always good at sciences I preferred math and science over English and literature because there was a definitive answer and I really appreciated that and so I pursued engineering my grandpa was a pilot for many years and he used to bring me to the airports and I was always fascinated with aeronautics with planes and so my original intention was to become an aeronautical engineer and when I went to college there was no degree for that so I switched to the next best thing which was mechanical engineering so I got my degree in mechanical engineering but what's interesting though is that I never really felt a strong connection to it it was purely coming from the place of what position or what career can I have that's going to provide that security that financial stability because I didn't want to be in the position that I witnessed growing up so much yeah and I think that's so interesting because I feel like if most of us look to what we pursue it comes from a pain we had in our childhood or our past where it's like you're pursuing something because you didn't have it growing up or you're pursuing something because you did have it growing up and I don't know if we will ever stop to think why am I pursuing this like when was it where you started to realize why am I pursuing this that maybe that was only because you didn't have money growing up and then you'll pursue shifting but when was that moment where you were like I don't think this is what I really want to do first day on the job really that quit what was the reason so originally when I was when I was engineering I wanted to get into renewable and sustainable energy and that was my goal and then had all these job offers after I was graduating and ended up going with the highest degree of success. So I was, I was the highest offer which was oil and gas so it was completely contradictory to what I originally intended on doing so I sold out not a shame to say it and what what I found was that you know I started they started me off at a six figure salary so my my first year at 22 23 was making like 150 grand a year and I thought to myself wow I have made it like I remember crying the first when I got the offer because I was like wow I finally made it I can take care of my family now and the first day in the job I realized that when I that I was like, this is not what I want to do. Like, I'm gonna have to do this for the next 40 years and then retire. Like, I quickly saw the timeline of what my life was going to be like. And that feeling is not a great feeling because I had just dedicated five years to getting my degree and had an incredible amount of debt. And I just stuck through it. You know, I lived with that for five years before I finally built up enough courage to leave that career and pursue something that was more meaningful for me. But it took me five years of really suffering with that and living with that to finally create enough discomfort for me to be like, you know what, this money is not everything. And I really feel like I have a deeper purpose and I feel like I can make a greater impact in the world and be of better service to people by leaning into this thing that I had been doing on the side which was basically teaching people how to be vegan and in shape. That's yeah, I wanted to dive into that with you because I remember selling out too. I really wanted to do art and design at university like at college. That was what I wanted to do. That was my favorite subject in high school. And I traded it to do a business degree even though I did focus on and discovered behavioral science which I fell in love with, which was actually my passion with art and design which I related discovered. But I sold out too because I was just told so many times that art and design wouldn't make money. And so, yeah, you got to make a smart decision and then I began to munk anyway on top of all of it. So it all went out the window. But a lot of people feel that way where they have something that's calling them, something that's pulling them towards it. But then they push it away because something feels more realistic or something else feels like the right thing to do. And it's amazing that you noticed it on day one and I've created now a new methodology and I'm repeating this because I hope I remember to use it again and again and again. And there are times when I remember it, there are times when I wish I remembered it. But I came up with a methodology of how I make decisions because I found that money was always such a tempting, tantalizing thing or whatever, that's one of those. But I think there are so many things in the world that are just so attractive and lucrative that they distract us from what we truly want. And so I came up with something that I call ESM and the East ends for energy. So the first thing I ask is, does this give me energy? Does this person give me energy? Does this project give me energy? Does the work energize me? Do I want to bring my energy to this? Like, is this an energy fit? And that's a question I was asked myself. If the answer is yes, then I move forward to the S and the S is strategy. Okay, my energy feels good. It's like my heart feels good, but is this strategic? Like does this strategically make sense? Does it make sense on the basis of, do we all have the right idea? Sometimes something makes sense energetically. But if there is an astradity behind it, it won't last, it's not sustainable. So is there strategy behind this? Is there an effective method behind this? A system, a process that I can get behind? And that my energy will be directed clearly. I think a lot of the time you feel like, oh, the energy's amazing and very LA thing as well. It's like, the energy is really good, but then it just kind of goes splat, right? Like it's just everyone. So is my energy directed? If the answer is yes, then I go to the M, which stands for money. And so does this make commercial sense? Does this make sense financially, does it make? And so money is an important part of my methodology. It's just the third most important metric. And I only get to ask that question if I go through the first two. And that stops you from doing things just for something at the end. I love that. And at least it's helped me. Yeah, no, I love that because I never had that process. For me, it was always the lucrative, like what can provide the most money? And I will endure whatever I need to provide. And I'm not saying that money's not important. I agree. Everybody has to provide for themselves and everybody's in different situations. And for me, personally, engineering just really clearly, it was clear to me that it wasn't energizing me. It was very much training me. So going to work every day was not something I looked forward to. I looked for reasons to leave. I was constantly distracted about the other life that I had wanted for myself. And I used to think that doing something that you love and making money were mutually exclusive. Same. Same. I didn't know that you could marry the two. And now I believe that a career is, I define career as a profitable source of pleasure. So doing something that I love first and foremost, you will every time get really good at it. And when you're good at anything, you can master it and you can teach it to others. And I never once in a million years thought that I would be doing what I'm doing. But I did it just on the side for free because it brought me that much joy and fulfillment just for myself. And once I started to see the ripple and the curiosity from other people and thought to myself, wow, I can really make a difference in somebody's life just by sharing how I'm living. And that's when I really found the conviction to say, you know what, this is something that I want to pursue. Even if it doesn't make sense logically, I'm going to listen to my heart for once because I've been listening to my brain this entire time. I'm going to drop in and listen to my heart. And what my gut is telling me, and my gut is telling me to pursue this, to follow this. Yeah, no, I think that's, I love that, your definition of what a career is. That's really cool. And I can agree with you more. I remember literally, and this is crazy for me to think about it, I didn't know, and when I said I didn't know, I mean, like my mind didn't process that there was any other career out of being a doctor, a lawyer or in business. Like I literally thought those were the only three careers that existed, not because I didn't, and I didn't know anyone who didn't do any of those things apart from obviously if people were teachers or if people, you know, my uncle owned a grocery store and things like that, like a local grocery store. And so things like that, but I didn't have context over you could be something else. And therefore, it was those three things, and I never like medicine, I never like law, and so I had to do business. And because art and design wasn't a career. So I get that, and I think a lot of people lived that way and feel that way. And I also think today we've created a culture where it's like, you have to be an entrepreneur, and that I disagree with too. Like I don't think doing what you love means doing it as an entrepreneur. I think there are phenomenally talented people who work inside organizations. And when you think about some of the CEOs of the biggest companies today, they didn't found them. Like, Sinder Pichai, CEO of Google, or Tim Cook, CEO of Apple, they didn't build those companies, and they became so successful within an organization that they run. So I do think that we're all still living at that other extreme now. Where it's like, you have to quit your job and do something you love. And I'm like, well, that doesn't make sense either. Like maybe some people are gonna find what they love inside a career, and inside a workplace. And I think both need to be banished. So we went from like, you have to work an amazing job as an engineer, and do something you hate and get paid. And now it's like, you have to quit everything and do what you love. And it's like, well, there's a spectrum there. Definitely. I want to know how you survived the five years because I love that answer that you knew it on the first day, but you had to survive in suffer for five years. I think that's very, very real, because you're in your head trying to figure that out. Like, how did you deal and cope with those five years? Did you adopt bad habits? What did you do? Because I think oftentimes, that's when people turn to like different things. I don't know if you did, but yeah, what did you do? And then how did you finally get out? Yeah, yeah, definitely. I mean, when you live that way, obviously, you find escape, right? There's ways to escape. And thankfully, my escape was the gym. And anytime I would get off work. That's a good escape, though. Yeah, it was a great escape for me. And I would go to the gym and I would really just find peace. And it was like my therapy. I would go to the gym and I really do love training. I love the art of learning how this vessel works. And how I can really optimize the movements and how it feels. And it just really sink into the process of developing my physical self. And what I learned in that process was how many benefits mentally there are as well. Because it requires discipline. It requires sacrifice. It requires intention and attention to detail. So that's where I really found enjoyment was really in the process of learning how to develop my physical self. And as far as dealing with the five years, I had thought about quitting. I mean, I also am a realist and knew that I had to provide for myself. And I would also be giving up a very good opportunity and didn't have the clarity of what that next thing would be. And all the while, I was doing this other thing. It was right in front of me the whole time. But I needed to really find that path. I needed the contrast of doing something that I didn't like doing because that gave me the clarity to find something that I really did. So I don't regret anything in my life that was painful or challenging because it's really shaped who I am today. And given me the opportunity to have the clarity, to pursue the things that really resonate with me. Yeah. And I guess you can deal with, you know what your clients are dealing with too. In terms of the stress of the workplace, the stress of what they're going through. And you've been in their shoes. You know what it looks like. And I think that the thing that came to my mind when you were saying that was, you knew that you were falling in love with working out and you were falling in love with this other thing on the side. I have a friend that, well, she used to be working at a company and she was stressed and hated it in the same sense as you did. And but she loved presenting. And so then she joined a company where she's a public speaking coach and she goes back to the company. She's working at a teach public speaking. Like a teacher's communication, not just public speaking, but teachers' communication, teachers' negotiation, teachers' people's skills. And she's so much happier doing it. And I love seeing those stories where people have the courage to figure out the switch. But it sounds like you were doing a lot in your evenings and weekends to build this other route and build this other path. When you made the switch over, did it feel like, because I'm guessing when you first did it, were you able to replace your salary completely? No, right? That's, yeah. That's my friend. She's, it's taken her three years to replace her salary that she made before, but she's doing good now. And so yeah. I think that working as an engineer and going through that, getting my degree, really helped me think like an engineer, obviously. So I approached it with that engineering approach of like, how can I take this thing that I really want to do and create systems and processes for me to make it financially so I could pay for my bills? Essentially, that was my goal. It was like, can I just cover my bills at that point in time? And what I wanted to do was reach as many people as possible. So I partnered up with a software engineer and we decided to build a whole platform of how can I really systemize delivering the content, teaching people how to lift providing educational content, and then also the meal planning, which is the most important part whenever people are trying to get in shape is figuring out what to eat. So we developed a whole algorithm, a whole platform to be able to serve thousands of clients at a time. And it took months of planning. I wasn't making any money. I was just kind of siphoning away all my savings. And what's really interesting is that first week whenever we launched our very first program and very first offer, I made more in a week than I made in a year as an engineer. And that was the moment for me that I was like, wow, this is very possible for me to continue to pursue. And obviously that's my experience, but it takes that level of planning and really having an approach that is risk averse. I'm not suggesting for anybody to go quit their job. I think that having a plan of action and having a timeline makes the most sense for you to not put yourself in a compromising position. So that's the way that I did it. And it's penned out very, very well because it's given me the space to still work with so many people and still get to do what I love and not be so focused on in the business, just working in the business, if that makes sense. And it also shows that a lot of our experiences are not wasted. Like, first of all, growing up in a spiritual community, made you vegetarian, made you have a himsa, made you appreciate life forms. Like that's a useful experience, even if at that time you felt alone and disconnected from the people you're around, then you go off and you study engineering, which again, you're like, I don't want to be an engineer, but your engineering skills are the ones that you use to launch your passion. And then it's like you discover what you love doing, which is working out. And now what you do is mixing compassion, working out and engineering. And I love that idea that encouraging people to collect passions and curate their passion. And that's how you create your passion is that you're constantly collecting experiences. And then you're bringing them together, rather than like, I found this one thing. And everything before this was a waste of time. And even on my journey, I've filled the same way. It's like, I loved art and design growing up, which has massively impacted my career today, because I look at everything through the lens of art and design. And then I was fortunately greater economics and good at understanding business and then behavioral science. And that's obviously been very useful in my life today. And then obviously I fell in love with philosophy and I fell in love with teaching and I fell in love with mentorship and I fell in love with the wisdom that I learned from the monks. And now my life is all three of those things put together. And I wouldn't trade any of those experiences. So if anyone's in a bad place right now or anyone's in a hard place right now where they don't enjoy what they do, or they feel they studied the wrong thing at university or college or whatever it is, none of that's wasted, because you're just collecting experiences that will be useful if you look at it that way in what you're building. And that isn't a mindset that's just true that any skill you learn right now is gonna be useful later on. Yeah, I believe in this inclusion-based universe where everything is happening for your benefit. Every experience that you go through is happening for you and you can be the beneficiary, even if some very challenging times. And I believe that from the soul's perspective, we call in these experiences so that we can develop the strength of the resilience or the perspective to transcend them. So when I look back at my childhood, although it had its moments of beauty and so much beauty in my life, there was also so much challenge and strife as well. And I see those moments now as what really shaped me and primed me for what I'm doing today, because once at one point, the thing that I was most ashamed of is the thing that I really lead with now. So just remembering that in any time of challenge that this is teaching you something and in some time maybe you can't see it right there, but you are the beneficiary of this challenging moment. And it will allow you to keep growing. It's like there's so many parallels between the gym and life. It's like you're under the bar at doing squats and it's very, very uncomfortable. You want it to stop. You want to drop the weight. You're like, no more, I can't handle anymore. And then you push through. And on the other side of that, you develop the strength and the resilience and your body adapts and you grow so that you can handle that plus some the next time. So that's the way that I really tried to approach any challenge these days is like, okay, bring it on. I accept the challenge because I called this experience into my life so that I could transcend it. What's the mindset and where did bodybuilding come into? Like what's the mindset behind wanting to do that? Where does that come from? And what was that journey like? Because I think we hear about it a lot, I think, from celebrities in the media who have to look a certain way for movies or things like that. And then they come out years later and they tell you how unhealthy it was. But during when the movie, I think it was Zach Efron recently. It was like, you know, he talked about the Baywatch movie. And it's obviously when you watch that movie, you're like, God, exactly. Zach looks incredible. Yeah. And he did. And then, you know, he was on TV shows at the time. But then I think he came out recently and then he was talking about how unhealthy it was, how he didn't feel great about it. And I think a lot of men talk about that afterwards as one. And women, of course, talk about it. But I feel like it's great when a couple of men start opening up about how even though they look great and every guy wanted to look like them, it wasn't healthy. But for you, how has that journey been for you? And I've never asked you this before. Yeah, no, it's a bit of an arc for me. You know, I remember always being the small kid growing up. So there was a bit of insecurity there. And so definitely ego played a big part in for me to want to develop myself because it, you know, it quite literally built layers between you and everybody else. And if you're trying to protect your fragile nature, or your little wounded self, then this is a great way to do that, even if it's masked through other things. So that was a big journey for me because originally when I got into it, I had that reason. And then the more I did it, the more I really started to do it because I loved it. And didn't train because I didn't like myself or the thought of if I'm out of shape, nobody will like me or I won't like myself. And started shifting and reframing that too. I really love taking care of myself because I feel good when I do. And that's what really led me to lean into it and to continue to discover ways in which I could just develop myself further. And then somebody actually suggested it to me in the gym one time and they said, hey, there's this show coming up locally and you should do it. You look great. And I was like, yeah, right. You could not pay me to do that. And then I thought about it. I was like, I don't have anything else going on. This could be some new challenge, something exciting. I did it and ended up winning the first show that I competed in. So obviously when you excel at something, it motivates you even further. Yeah, yeah. So then the marriage of teaching people how to do what I did without eating any animal products felt really aligned with me because I had heard up until that point that you couldn't win a bodybuilding show or bodybuilders need animal protein. So here I was showing other people that you could do it. And that's what I really felt the call beyond myself to say, hey, if I can inspire other people to live more compassionately, then this is worth me pursuing because it brings me that much more fulfillment. And I see the difference I've just making and maybe they might be complete strangers to me. But it's nice to know that people are out there listening. Yeah. And that's when I continued and eventually became pro, eventually did that for a few years. But then afterwards I got wrapped up in the identity of like being a bodybuilder. And that's when I started to recognize that, hey, maybe this isn't for me anymore because I'm attaching so much of who I am to what I look like. And that doesn't feel good anymore. So that's when I decided to step away from the sport altogether and just retire in 2018. I mean, that's a real journey because like you said, it often starts with like ego or validation from ourselves, from others, then you kind of get to a point if you're lucky where you're like, okay, now I'm doing it for myself and I enjoy it. Talked me a bit about that journey because I think that's the hardest part of that journey is like going from like I do this because I want the validation for myself and others and I want to protect the younger me too. I'm actually going to do this because I like feeling better. Like walk me through some of the steps there because I feel like, yeah, that feels like a long journey. Yeah, it was for sure. And you know, the ego is a funny thing because once you shine the light of awareness on a part of your ego, it just kind of dances into the shadow and it becomes a little bit more insidious and tricky and shows up in new ways. So for me, it kept showing up in different ways to where I was realizing that it wasn't bringing me happiness anymore. Like I felt this obligation, this pressure to be this person and at the time my following was continuously rising as my popularity grew. And the really just the exposure to people's comments and things that they had to say about me, I started to notice how much it was affecting me and specifically focusing on negativity. And I was like, why am I really focusing on this and allowing it to really disrupt my internal state? And that's when I started to get real with myself and saying, oh, because I am seeking this validation and it means so much to me when people think highly of me and when they don't, it really affects me mentally. So that's when I started to take a step back to more self-reflection and say, maybe I'm not doing this for the right reasons anymore and I should explore that. Yeah, and I like that reflection because I always try and walk into things with the right intention. And then I try and reflect on my intention while I'm doing it. And I can often find that it's easy for your intention to get distorted. And then I ask myself, can I bring my intention back to doing it for the right thing? And then if I can't, that's when I leave it. So my goal is always, I try and start with the right motivation, the right approach. And then it's natural for it to get distorted. That's always gonna happen to any of us because we're not perfect, because we're not, we haven't got everything figured out. And so I'll realize that, oh, maybe I did kind of go too far this way. And then I'll see if I have the ability to come back. And sometimes I do and sometimes I don't. And so it sounds like you went through that same process of, can I do this again for the right reasons? When you were doing it at its peak and you had people coming up to you, talking to you about compassion and plant-based life and veganism, did people notice that were they aware of that? And then what would they say to you? What was people's reactions? I mean, just in truth. Yeah, I mean, there's always a lot of curiosity, a lot of interest whenever you hear somebody doing something that's on Orthodox. So vegan bodybuilders is an oxymoron for a lot of people. They don't believe it's possible. So to see somebody doing it and competing at the highest level, it brought its own pressures to me because people, especially the vegan movement, tended to pedestalize me and use me as this poster boy, this example for somebody who could do this, which I enjoyed and then also equally didn't enjoy because I would be thrown into arguments online and people would just use me as this example where I just opened up my phone and just see all these comments of people arguing back and forth. And again, my goal was to never be polarizing online or it was to inspire the people that really wanted to live this way. So that also played a huge impact into reassessing what kind of message I'm putting out there. And to really, again, just lead with compassion and show that you can coexist with people who have different views on life, different perspectives than you where we're often more common than we are different. So that's another reason why I felt like bodybuilding is a sport of comparison. It's me literally lined up to another person and comparing the two. And I always approached that sport with, it's always just me versus me. I could never control what anybody else was doing outside of that experience. It was like you step on stage, it's not me versus these other guys. It's just me versus who I was yesterday. But that's really when I wanted to step away from the sport so I could continue to focus on the thing that I originally wanted to do, which was to help serve people in my highest capacity, which is when I started coaching after I left bodybuilding. Yeah, and that's what I find interesting too. It's like knowing when to quit something and quitting stuff is such a good skill that I think's underrated. Like we rate people in society for how long they can do something as opposed to how quickly they can let go of something that doesn't serve them or serve others anymore. And I'm more interested in that sometimes where I think about like I let go of being among at a time when I didn't feel like it served me or served others anymore. I let go of my corporate career because it didn't serve me or serve others anymore. I let go of the first content I created. We don't make content like that anymore because it didn't serve me or serve others anymore. And so we've evolved in so many ways and I often think that we keep putting time you've done something on a pedestal as opposed to time you stopped doing things that didn't make sense to you anymore. And so even hearing that from your perspective and it's like we did this bodybuilding achieve so much and then I had to leave it behind in order to move into coaching. And in the coaching space, you've worked with some incredible people and you don't have to name anyone whatever you feel comfortable with. But in the idea of like when you're coaching someone or anyone who's thinking about becoming a coach or thinking about becoming a trainer, a guide, a teacher in any capacity, what were the things that have been really important that you've learned through coaching other people who are high performers? Yeah, it's realizing that it's not about me. It's not about me coaching them. It's about me helping my client discover the power that they contain within themselves. So oftentimes people think that they're not one who could possibly get into shape or do the things that they commit because they just get in their own way. So what I've found is that those are symptoms of underlying beliefs. Maybe they're subconscious beliefs that are preventing them from doing the things that they really want to do. So when I coach and you know this from working with me is that I like to talk a lot during our sessions and hear what your experience is like because oftentimes language reveals so much about how we think. And ironically, the way that we view ourselves has a huge impact in the way that we show up for our physical health. So as I'm training people, it's almost like, I don't wanna call it therapy, but it's just a really deep conversation where I learn about my clients on a level that allows them to see what kind of capable, powerful person they are. And then once they recognize it themselves, then they start to show up and believe it themselves. Yeah, so yeah, for everyone who's listening, Neymar trained me during the pandemic, I think it was for a few months we worked together. And I guarantee Neymar has never had anyone that he's trained, that has been blessed in me. Literally, I would like, and Neymar's a great trader and he's everything he just said he is like, it was very therapeutic working with him, it's super supportive, constantly making me look for the power within myself. And I'd be like nine times out of 10 after a session, I'd be lying on my bed. So I'd be just trying to recover because I'd love the coolness of my bed. And I would just need to sit there and just take it in because it was so high intensity in a good way. But at the same time, I also broke through a lot of mental blocks I had around what I believed around what my body could do or what I believed my body was capable of. We were able to dial back and start slower and build up again. And I think you were so great at doing that. I think it's so beautiful as I'm a coach too. And I think when I'm being coached, I really appreciate it when someone makes me feel like I can get there and that it's okay that I'm slower or that it's taking time. I'm already going through all the self-judgment and self-criticism. The last thing I need is for someone else to criticize me too. And to have someone who's supporting you along that journey, I really felt that with you, I've always felt that with you through our friendship. But I also felt it very much in that time. And I think those are such great skills for all relationships actually, not just for coaching, but if you're teaching your partner something, if you're teaching your child something, if you're teaching your parents something, if we could be more supportive and notice the goodness in them and notice the attempt and notice the positive attitude that person have and the fact that they showed up, that person is gonna feel inspired. But if we criticize them the first time they fumble or judge them the second time they make a mistake or point out to them how much better everyone else that we train is, that doesn't help anyone. And I at one point, I had one of my clients took me to play golf with him and I don't play golf and I've never played golf before that day. And I had a coach at the center we went to and the coach was incredible. Very patient, very professional, you know, very deaf for me. I was only deaf for a day. So I only got a day of coaching, but by the end of the day I was half decent. I was okay as an I could do something. And when I came back to LA, because we were traveling together, but when I came back to LA I tried to look for a golf coach here because I really got into it. I was like, oh this could be a cool thing to do and maybe we'd be fun to get into it with Radee and I took Radee with me. And I got a coach who'd supposedly worked with like some of the best of the best and all the rest of it. And I couldn't take a shot without him correcting me every second. And it almost became really draining and tiring because I was like, I need to hit like 10 shots to then be corrected. But if I'm corrected in every half a swing, it's really hard for me to like find my flow. And I felt so criticized and judged and everything that I kind of never swam again after like seeing him a couple of times. And it just showed me that being a coach is really tough, being a student is really tough. But often I think we wrongly coach our friends and family. And that's where I find the coaching conversation to be most interesting. Even if you're not a coach in your career, how you try and teach things to your family, your friends, your kids, your parents, goes a long way. I wanted to hear your thoughts on that. Yeah, no, it's meeting people where they are. Right? And understanding that everybody is where they're at and that is the only place they could be with the awareness that they have in that moment. So really having compassion, because really, I mean, coaches just help you get one step ahead at a time. If you try to share something with someone who's not ready to receive that message, it's just gonna go over their head. So I really love starting with the fundamentals of helping people make those small incremental changes that compound to be big, big difference in their physical health, but not just their physical health, but like the way that they believe, they have the confidence in themselves that they can achieve the things that they want to. So like you said, sometimes people are their own worst critics. And having compassion towards yourself whenever you're learning something is a skill. And it's not something that we exercise very much. So I really try to help my clients also exercise that muscle. So can you be compassionate with yourself? Yes, you may be not where you want to be. Maybe you're a bit out of shape. That's okay. The difference that you have now is you have the awareness that you want to do something about it. You don't have to judge yourself for the mistakes that you made. All of that process was, or all of those decisions were coming from a place that maybe you didn't have the awareness to, maybe you didn't have the skill set to, maybe you didn't have the resources to. But now moving forward, you have the support to. And you first have to be kind with yourself first and foremost. So if you feel guilty, or if you feel ashamed of allowing yourself to get to this point, just know that yes, we're always accountable for what we do, but there's no need to belittle yourself or beat yourself up about it. It's like I like to use this example with my clients. If you were to hand a child a calculus problem and tell them to solve it, and they weren't able to solve it, would you yell at them or scream at them or tell them how stupid they are or how incapable they are? No, they just don't have the awareness to solve that problem. And that is the same kind of thinking that you could apply towards yourself. Like you would be gentle with them, you would be kind with them, you would be supportive, you would ask them what they need to help get them to that place. So that's the way that I like to teach my clients to think about themselves, so that the next time they show up and they say, hey, you know what, I slipped up. But slipping up and giving up are two totally different things. So it's okay to slip up. Failure is part of the formula for success. So you learn, you make mistakes, you get better, you make more advanced mistakes, and then you get better. So that's the formula that I like to teach my clients as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I love that. And what I love about that approach is just fitness and working out and anything we do externally is so much more of an internal journey. Like it's like overcoming the inner critic, overcoming the inner judgment, being able to be kind to ourselves, being able to be compassionate to ourselves, being able to let things go and know when to work harder and when to pull back. Like it's such an internal dialogue. It's completely inner mastery that you're actually working on. And I often think about me as someone who, I love playing sports, I've never really loved working out. But that's the part that I can get behind is that ultimately it's inner mastery that I'm working on. Even if working out is my favorite thing, even though I do do it because I realize it's value and benefits. But that ultimately it's inner mastery that I'm trying to get through. Yeah, yeah. And focusing more on the process too, and not so much the outcome because the outcome, yes, people are motivated by results. But if you're only motivated by results and they don't come in the timeline that you expect them to, then your motivation will tank. So finding that intrinsic motivation of not just looking a certain way in the mirror or seeing a certain number on the scale or being able to squat a thousand pounds or anything like that. But really being intrinsically motivated by the feeling that you're looking to achieve by doing this. So showing up for yourself, going to the gym and just remembering or just thinking about the feeling that you would get once you have that internal freedom within your body, the comfort of what it would feel like to just wake up and feel good. Just feel good in your skin and feel capable of handling whatever life throws at you because you have been consistently training and showing up in this way. So I really tried to preach just focus on the process. And if you can really find a way to enjoy the process to make it fun, to make it exciting, like fitness is not just about going to the gym. There's many different forms of fitness. So if you don't like training or you don't like lifting weights in the gym, like you could do tennis or you could play soccer, you could go hiking, you could go biking, you could go paddle boarding. There's so many different things that once you find the enjoyment of it, then you're more likely to keep doing it. Yeah, absolutely. Neema, it's been so dope talking to you, man. It's just like, I feel like there's so many great lessons from just hearing someone's journey. And even though we've been friends, and we've talked before, it's like to actually hear your journey step by step. And I know it's just an everyone that I think is living happier, healthy, and healed lives that it's just that they took the time to reflect and then shift. That's like a common thread I find in people who are happier, healthier, and more healed is that they weren't smarter, they weren't better, they weren't and this applies to me too. It's like you didn't, it's not that you were above anyone. And it's not that you were below, it's not that you were ahead or behind, it's that the only difference is you took the time to reflect and shift your life according to your reflection. And I find that today we do a lot of thinking and overthinking. And thinking and overthinking is where you just let the same thought go over and over and over again. But reflecting is asking yourself, is this the right thought? Is this thought useful? Is this the thought that I want to play again and again and again? And if the answer is no, let me shift my behavior so that I can have a different thought or let me plant a new thought so that it can shift my behavior. And so I see that through your journey and it's just, I hope that this conversation encourages you to listen to your friends, listen to people around you to make time and space for reflection because even reflecting with you today, it's amazing to see how many similarities there are even though we do very different things or have achieved very different things externally. But there's so many similarities in how we have to pivot and shift. Yeah, I mean, I think it really comes down to listening to yourself. Like you said, that self-reflection, that listening to your gut, listening to that inner knowing and it's much more difficult to find that without creating this space to listen. So for me, that meditation is also whenever I move my body. Some people find it in stillness, I find it in movement. And that is when I find this connection to this higher self, if you will, within myself, to where I get all my best ideas, I find the most inspiration. So creating this space for whatever that looks like for you to really tap into the deepest part of yourself that brings you the most fulfillment and most joy and most clarity about who do you want to be? What type of person do you want to show up as? What type of life do you want to have? And are you living in alignment with those thoughts or are you living incongruently with that? And that disparity between the two is signified by how you feel about it. So you're always being shown and being guided by your feelings. So learn to tap into the good feelings and what feels right and what feels true for you and then just continue to follow that. Absolutely. Neema, I love that. We end every episode with a final five. These have to be answered in a one word to one sentence, maximum. So Neema, these are your final five. The first question is, what is the best fitness advice you've ever received or heard? Just be consistent. OK, just be consistent. That is good advice. All right, the second question is, what is the worst fitness advice you've ever heard or received? That you have to go to a gym to get fit. You know, I would say that you don't have to sign up to a gym to get in shape. You know, just find what you like to do that's active and get you moving. And that's what's most important when it comes to fitness. Yeah, I remember when you turned around and ruined our house into a home gym gym in the pandemic. So yeah, I believe that now, after having seen you do that, I do that. Question number three, how would you define your current purpose? To help inspire people to lead with more compassion. Beautiful question. Number four, what's something that you used to value when it came to physical fitness, but that you don't value anymore? I would say the, the, this is, it's superficial, but the amount of weight that I that I lift in the gym, I see so many people lift with their ego and they're just being very inefficient with their movement and they're essentially wasting their time in the gym. So leave your ego at the door whenever you go into the gym and lift with intention. Don't just go in there to swing weight around and look cool, but really go in there with the intention of mastering the repetition. If you can master the repetition of any movement, then you will see so much faster results than anything else. That's great. I love that. That's a good piece of advice. Fifth and final question, if you could create one law that everyone in the world had to follow, what would it be? It's be kind to others, accept people where they are and who they are. I think that the world would be a much, much more pleasant place than what it is right now. We need a lot of that. Yeah. Everyone, that's Nima Do Gato. Make sure you check him out if you don't already on social media. We will put his handles everywhere and make sure you tag us both me and Nima with anything that's to that in this conversation. I think this was one of those conversations where, you know, we learn so much about so many things we go through all the time, things like pivoting your career, things like knowing when to quit, things like how to process your early experiences and turn them into something else. And then ultimately, how do you find what you love and live in that way and totally create a life around what you love and what you believe in? Whether that's loving your workout or loving your career. And so I hope this episode guides you closer towards that direction. I hope this episode moves you in that direction towards your greatest gifts and your greatest potential. And I want to say a big thank you to Nima for spending his time with us today. Thank you so much, man. That was amazing. And it's so good for me to sit and learn more about your story. And I hope a lot of people are going to come and learn from you and grow in so many different ways. No, thank you so much, Jay. I really appreciate you inviting me on. I just want to say that you are such an inspiration to me as well and to see you and Roddy show up in the way that you do and continue to inspire and uplift everybody. So thank you for being an inspiration to thank you so much. If you love this episode, you will enjoy my conversation with Meghan Trainor on Breaking General Rational Trauma and how to be confident from the inside out. My therapist told me stand in the mirror naked for five minutes. It was already tough for me to love my body, but after the C-section scar with all the stretch marks, now I'm looking at myself like I've been hacked. But day three when I did it, I was like, you know what? I thought it was a cure.